CCL Diary, cc241006, Angelina Hess

Mon 13th   Today I worked on the java background for my layout by manually customizing the sizes of each element which will be displayed around the main gameplay. It is taking very long and I’ve asked one of the tutors to help me out. 

Tue 14th  After spending the whole day on a java version of what I could construct easily n html, I gave my whole game idea a rethink, it seemed like the idea I had is not the most suitable for OOP, I am now working on a game where you have a character that can move in all directions and has to navigate a map to find the anomalies (objects that appear or disappear) This would allow me to later implement object- character collision an meet the requirements for the CCL. Today I’ve worked on the now html and CSS elements like the buttons, Background and the canvas.

Wed 15th   Today I’ve worked on the collision mechanics between skeleton(template) and new block objects and implemented a timer at the top of the screen that runs for 5min, this will be the games total running time. Additionally I also tweaked some of the html elements. 

Thu 16th Today I worked on the mechanics of the horizontal move triggers which would allow the character to stay in the middle of the screen while all other elements move around her, giving the effect that the character is moving. The animation was relatively easy to do, however the triggers aren’t working the way I thought they would.

Fri 17th The move triggers are giving me a lot of trouble, it seems like the vertical and horizontal triggers mess with each other’s code, I’ve consulted teachers and tutors, its already past 1am and I’m still at Uni trying to figure out the problem. Big thanks to Szabolcs the tutor that stayed and helped after hours. In the time where someone else was taking a look at my code I worked on the grid system for the map. 

Sat 18th I’ve set aside the move trigger problem for now because despite all efforts they still aren’t bug free, and have now started working on the map layout using an array with placeholder blocks. To do this I created an array with all possible anomalies/ objects, with values like height, width, col (for if the object should collide with the character, e.g. the carpet would have col = false because the character would walk over it). I also started working on the disappearing and appearing features for the anomalies, creating multiple arrays that the objects that disappear and appear are moved to independently. For today I just wrote the code in main.js, that removes 5 random anomalies from the rest at the start, these 5 would be the objects that later disappear throughout the game.  The move triggers now work up and down too, however the collision between anomalies and blockObjects is being overwritten by the collision with the triggers. 

Sun 19th I’ve managed to make the objects appear and disappear at random but controlled intervals using a spawner that loops every x seconds throughout the whole game. I also did the background, character design and walking animation, linking the style sheet to the player’s input. This was probably one of the easiest steps to do since drawing the character was more fun than difficult and I seemed to have little to no problems with the animation implementation. Only the sizing of the character started to mess with the move triggers, but by now I’m used to the triggers acting up. 
I also added a start screen with start game button and how to play button. 

Mon 20th Again today I took on the challenge of the move triggers and collision. After another all nightery past 3am I’ve managed (with help from tutors and teachers) to implement a pushback and stop movement feature that prevents the player from being able to force the character through objects. However, the character still seems to get stuck within the Object, and the reverse pushback sometimes works within the object, which means that once you’ve gotten the character stuck and try to move away from, or out of the object, the detection of collision starts to push you more into the object. 

Tue 21st Diverging my focus onto the games actual playability and mechanics I worked on the anomaly triggers which determine what action is happening and when. I used an if statement with a random number generator to select either 0, 1, or 2. Each number has a designated action, 0 makes an anomaly appear, 1 makes an anomaly disappear and 2 does nothing. I named this function toggleAnomalie and call it within the spawner (in main.js). Following this after every x seconds (decided within the spawner js) the trigger would be called and anomalies would be moved through the arrays. Which array an anomaly is in would determine if it is displayed or not. I also made a reversed version of this toggle function that would later work with the buttons. I then delayed the spawner so that the player had time to remember the original on load layout and created an alert that notified the player when changes will start to happen. 

Wed 22nd Today I added the buttons functionality. The way the buttons work, is that they check if certain arrays have content within them. Button one ladled “buttonAppear” checks if there is anything in the appearedObjects array, if there is, the function calls the revertAppear function which resets the last anomaly within said list. And if there isn’t anything in the list the button prints “lose game” (this will later be changed to remove one of the players lives). Same goes for the “buttonDisappear” that checks the dissapearedObjects array. So, if you press a button and thataction has not happened yet, you lose, but if it has happened and the correct button was selected, the last occurred action of that type is reverted and the game continues. 
Short on time I once again sacrificed my sleep to finish the remainder of the drawings (I started a few but still had a lot to go) and try to fix the triggers. I then inserted every drawing into the array containing all the information for each anomaly. 

Thu 23rd Today I refined the conditions for losing or winning the game. Now you lose if either, the timer runs out, the changes have exceeded 3 or all lives are lost. The changes are when something has either appeared or disappeared, to check if these have exceeded three, I implemented an if statement that checks the total sum of anomalies within the appearedObjects and disappeared Objects arrays. For the lives I added an html element that tracks how many lives the player has, and deducts one every time a button is pressed when its action has not yet happened. So, for example if nothing has disappeared (no objects are in the disappearedObjects array) and I press the button “buttonDisappear” I lose a life. I also drew a you lose and you win screen that is displayed appropriately. You now also win once the timer has reached 0.

Fri 24th Today we presented our game, not many could complete mine, but a few who were determined could, it seems I’ve gotten too used to my own layout and couldn’t accurately measure my games difficulty. So as soon as the show and tell was over I implemented a mini map button, that would display a map with all objects before 5 were removed. Th concept of the game is that you have to remember what is missing at the start so you know if it’s supposed to be displayed or not. 
e.g. When the game loads and the carpet top left isn’t displayed, this means it’s one of the objects that isn’t supposed to be shown throughout the game. If you see the carpet, you should then press the button saying that an object has appeared and you are safe. 
Wise versa, if you see an object at the beginning of the game, this object is one that should always be present on screen, so if it isn’t, you need to press object has disappeared. 

After Friday:  I added an animation to my start screen, added an audio, still haven’t figured out the collision bug, and made a lot of adjusting of the elements and sizes. 


Reflection: My biggest challenge was the move triggers. From the very start it made me doubt my abilities, broke parts of my game and messed up my sleep schedule, I’ll probably still work on it even after submission to learn and stop them from haunting my dreams. All in all, a very fun experiences, I even found myself having a good time sitting in Uni after midnight. 

